"To light a candle is to cast a shadow."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea
"Light is the left hand of darkness and darkness the right hand of light."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness
"The end justifies the means. But what if there never is an end? All we have is means."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven
"Knowledge can be communicated, but not wisdom."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"When someone seeks, it easily happens that he only sees the thing that he is seeking."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"Sometimes you need to scorch everything to the ground, and start over."|— Celeste Ng, Little Fires Everywhere
"The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain. It's the loneliness of it."|— Lois Lowry, The Giver
"There are so many ways to be brave in this world."|— Lois Lowry, Messenger
"No human being, when you understand his desires, is worthless."|— Orson Scott Card, Speaker for the Dead
"It is not the monsters we should be afraid of; it is the people that don't recognize the same monsters in themselves."|— Orson Scott Card, Xenocide
"A kiss is a secret told to the mouth instead of the ear."|— Edmond Rostand, Cyrano de Bergerac
"Life is not a mathematical equation. It is a continuous, chaotic process of becoming."|— Adrian Tchaikovsky, Children of Time
"The universe is a big place, and it's mostly empty. But the parts that aren't empty are incredibly dangerous."|— Vernor Vinge, A Fire Upon the Deep
"You don't have to burn books to destroy a culture. Just get people to stop reading them."|— Ray Bradbury
"It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness
"Words are events, they do things, change things."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven
"I have always thirsted for knowledge, I have always been full of questions."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"Rules were not meant to be broken, they were meant to be rewritten."|— Celeste Ng, Little Fires Everywhere
"If you forget your name, you forget who you are."|— Lois Lowry, The Giver
"The only true magic is the magic of understanding."|— Orson Scott Card, Speaker for the Dead
"Evolution is not a smooth process. It is a series of leaps and bounds, of mistakes and corrections."|— Adrian Tchaikovsky, Children of Time
"The most dangerous weapon in the universe is a closed mind."|— Vernor Vinge, A Fire Upon the Deep
"Stuff your eyes with wonder, live as if you'd drop dead in ten seconds."|— Ray Bradbury, The Illustrated Man
"We are going on an adventure."|— Adrian Tchaikovsky, Children of Time
"I will be waiting for you."|— Adrian Tchaikovsky, Children of Time
"Life is an adventure, not a mathematical equation."|— Adrian Tchaikovsky, Children of Time
"The universe is a vast and terrible place."|— Vernor Vinge, A Fire Upon the Deep
"To be a hero, one must first be a survivor."|— Vernor Vinge, A Fire Upon the Deep
"The name is the thing, and the true name is the true thing."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea
"He knew that he must go into the dark."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea
"Only in silence the word, only in dark the light, only in dying life: bright the hawk's flight on the empty sky."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea
"I can think. I can wait. I can fast."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"I have had to experience so much stupidity, so many vices, so much error, so much nausea, disillusionment and sorrow, just in order to become a child again and begin anew."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"Words do not express thoughts very well. They always become a little different immediately they are expressed."|— Hermann Hesse, Siddhartha
"To parents, a child is a mystery. You can only know what you see."|— Celeste Ng, Little Fires Everywhere
"All her life, she had learned that passion, like fire, was a dangerous thing."|— Celeste Ng, Little Fires Everywhere
"It is a terrible thing to learn as a child that one is a being separate from all the world."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness
"I'll make my report as if I told a story, for I was taught as a child on my homeworld that Truth is a matter of the imagination."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness
"Love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread; remade all the time, made new."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven
"There is nothing to fear except fear itself."|— Madeleine L'Engle, A Swiftly Tilting Planet
"A straight line is not the shortest distance between two points."|— Madeleine L'Engle, A Swiftly Tilting Planet
"We are an impossibility in an impossible universe."|— Ray Bradbury, The Illustrated Man
"There will come soft rains and the smell of the ground."|— Ray Bradbury, The Illustrated Man
"We gained control of many things. But we had to let go of others."|— Lois Lowry, The Giver
"The worst part of holding the memories is not the pain. It's the loneliness of it."|— Lois Lowry, The Giver
"The man that I named the Giver passed along to the boy knowledge, history, memories, color, pain, laughter, love, and truth."|— Lois Lowry, Messenger
"The truth is always a little dangerous, but a lie is a disaster."|— Orson Scott Card, Xenocide
"It is the nature of the universe that the highest order of intelligence always seeks to destroy itself."|— Orson Scott Card, Xenocide
"When you really know somebody you can't hate them. Or maybe it's just that you can't really know them until you stop hating them."|— Orson Scott Card, Speaker for the Dead
"I am a man who, from the very beginning, has always been an outsider."|— Orson Scott Card, Speaker for the Dead
"Love is a great thing, a great good, and it is the only thing that matters."|— Edmond Rostand, Cyrano de Bergerac
"I have loved but one man, and I have lost him twice."|— Edmond Rostand, Cyrano de Bergerac
"To sing, to laugh, to dream, to walk in my own way and be alone, free, with an eye to see things as they are."|— Edmond Rostand, Cyrano de Bergerac
"But the truth is that as a man's real power grows and his knowledge widens, ever the way he can follow grows narrower."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea
"The only thing that makes life possible is permanent, intolerable uncertainty: not knowing what comes next."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Left Hand of Darkness
"There is a kind of intelligence that is purely destructive."|— Vernor Vinge, A Fire Upon the Deep
"Most of the time, everyone deserves more than one chance."|— Celeste Ng, Little Fires Everywhere
"Things could change. Things could be different. I don't know how, but there must be some way for things to be different."|— Lois Lowry, The Giver
"This is how humans are: We question all our beliefs, except for the ones that we really believe, and those we never think to question."|— Orson Scott Card, Speaker for the Dead
"My heart always timidly hides itself behind my mind."|— Edmond Rostand, Cyrano de Bergerac
"The Illustrated Man was a carnival of shapes and colors, a riot of imagination."|— Ray Bradbury, The Illustrated Man
"Existence is its own justification."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven
"There is nothing you can do that won't change the world."|— Ursula K. Le Guin, The Lathe of Heaven
"The only way to truly understand something is to try and change it."|— Orson Scott Card, Xenocide
"If we can't learn to live together, we will surely die apart."|— Orson Scott Card, Xenocide
"Peace is not a passive state. It is an active state."|— Madeleine L'Engle, A Swiftly Tilting Planet
"Love is the only energy that cannot be destroyed."|— Madeleine L'Engle, A Swiftly Tilting Planet
"We are all inextricably interconnected, whether we realize it or not."|— Madeleine L'Engle, A Swiftly Tilting Planet
"Gathering the people was the easy part. Building the community was the hard part."|— Lois Lowry, Messenger
"The forest was not evil, it was just hungry, and hunger knows no morality."|— Lois Lowry, Messenger
"He knew that he was the only one who could do it, the only one who could cross the boundary."|— Lois Lowry, Messenger
